>>> Tonight, CNN is getting a
closer look at military
operations in gaza.
We reported under an escort at
all times.
At a condition, media outlets
must submit footage filmed in
gaza to the military for review.
CNN did not submit its script to
the idf and had editorial
control over the final report.
Let's bring in Oren Liebermann.
Tell us what you saw.
>> Reporter: Wolf, first, it's
nearly impossible to get into
gaza, so the chance to see what
was happening was given to us by
the idf who took us in with a
tank about a mile in.
Not only the progress they say
they're making, but the
challenges they face in a war
that's very much hot.
Through the breach, we entered
northern gaza at the border
crossing.
The land once fertile farmland
is baron.
The trees that might have
provided enemy cover is
destroyed the in the distance,
smoke from an Israeli air strike
is a stark reminder these day 34
of a war that may stretch much
longer.
On Thursday, the idf chief of
staff and head of internal
security service entered gaza
and promised strength through
coop.
Cooperation everyone is doing
Everly just so you can be as
strong as possible, the general
said.
Along our path, the signs of
civilian life have given to the
constant hum of drones.
Our time at the coordination
base for the border cross, first
international media to visit the
site, the terror attack was hit hard here, the scars of machine
gun fire and rpgs still visible.
The base was mostly empty on the
holiday, but not entirely.
Nine soldiers were killed here,
and three kidnapped.
It took 12 hours for Israel to
gain control of the base.
A Monday into the war, more than
10,000 Palestinians have been
killed in Israeli attacks on
gaza, according to
hamas-controlled health ministry
there.
The idf says 35 soldiers have
been killed in the strip since
the start of the incursion.
The October 7th attack killed
more than 1400 people, mostly
civilians.
We stop at an overlook near the
town of jabaliya.
There's a meeting point of three
different tunnels.
That's one, two, three.
They came together here and it
let hamas move underground
quickly below the feet and out
of sight.
Colonel tal says there were many
explosive, many trencheses we
found a storage site with many
explosives.
Even from a distance, the scale
of destruction is stunning.
Homes, neighborhoods decimated.
Colonel tal says the area is
nearly evacuated.
We see sometimes terrorists, but
the majority of civilians
haven't been here for a while.
As we talk, we hear rocket fire
and see the trails of the
launches triggering red alerts.
About 90 minutes inside northern
gaza, we hug the border wall for
safety.
Even here so close to the exit,
we stop briefly to make sure the
way ahead is safe.
In the distance once again, the
smoke from another strike.
The idf spokesperson said the
ground operation in gaza will
only deepen as Israel has said
it's largely encircled the city,
and wolf, I also spoke with the
commander about the humanitarian
corridor we talked about so much
earlier today.
He said they're aware of the
humanitarian corridor.
He knows when it is and where it
is.
Even in the middle of the war,
he knows you don't shoot in that
direction, even as the war wages
around them in other parts.
>> Oren, thanks for that report.
>>> Joining me now to discuss
all the news out of the middle
East, the national security
council coordinator for
strategic communication, retired
admiral John Kirby.
Thanks for joining us.
First, I said to get to the
daily four-hour pauses now being
reported in northern gaza to
allow civilians to flee south.
How will the pauses work?
And have the Israelis fully
committed to them?
>> They have fully committed to
them.
The way it would work, about
three hours before the pauses
will begin, the Israelis will
notify, through a variety of
means, civilization, the pause
will start, here is when, and
advice on the safest passage
out.
They have added a second safe
passage corridor, humanitarian
corridor, they call it, out of
northern gaza along the coast
road.
That's one more than they had
before, in just the last few
days.
This is a step in the right
direction.
This could help reduivil
usage casualties by giving
people the confidence and time
to move out of harm's way.
>> John, is there really
anywhere in gaza that's safe for
Palestinian civilians?
We're told almost half of them
are children.
>> Well, hamas is placing those
children and those families in
harm's way by tunnelling under
their apartment complexes, using
their hospitals and schools as
command bunkers.
They place them directly in
harm's way between the idf and
hamas.
These safe corridors, and they
pauses, this breathing space in
time for people to get out
should help alleviate some of
the anxiety and the worry that